**Book Title:**

**Name(s) of Author(s):**

**1. Tell us about yourself. **

-   What are your qualifications for writing this book?

-   Do you have any unique characteristics or experiences that will make
    you stand out as the author?

**2. Tell us about the book. **

-   What is the technology or idea that you're writing about?

-   Why is it important now?

-   Tell us roughly how it works or what makes it different from its
    alternatives. Feel free to use pictures.

-   What type of book are you planning to write?

    -   Is your book a tutorial or a reference?

    -   Does this book fall into a Manning series such as In Action, In
        Practice, Month of Lunches, or Grokking?

    -   Are there any unique characteristics of the proposed book, such
        as a distinctive visual style, questions and exercises,
        supplementary online materials like video, etc?

**3. Please give us 5 or 6 representative tasks in the domain of your book.**

In most cases, your reader is learning this topic to accomplish some
specific goals. We want to document "representative tasks" that
practitioners of this technology will be taking on, each of which
requires a number of smaller skills.

For example, if you're learning to drive, then "parallel parking" is a
fantastic representative task that synthesizes skills like "using rear
view and side view mirrors," "driving in reverse," and "steering at
sharp angles."

Imagine a book on "Ruby on Rails". A few representative tasks could
be:

-   Construct a Rails server that can deliver dynamically generated
    web pages.

-   Construct a Rails server that can support extended conversations
    with users and maintain conversational state (such as a shopping
    cart application).

-   Create a Rails server that can interact with relational databases
    and/or document database.

In the Table of Contents, we should be able to see that you've included
the required component skills the reader will need to learn to
accomplish these representative tasks.

**4. The minimally-qualified reader (MQR)**

You need to understand clearly what you're assuming your reader already
knows before beginning the book. The Minimally Qualified Reader (MQR)
represents a reader who possesses only the lowest level of pre-requisite
skills and knowledge. For example, if you're intending that your book is
appropriate for a beginning JavaScript programmer, you probably can't
assume knowledge of something like promises or closures.

**What is the primary job role of your readers? **

E.g.

-   The minimally-qualified reader will be a system administrator with
    at least four years experience

-   This book would also be appropriate for developers or DevOps
    engineers who need to administer Linux systems

**What do you expect your MQR to already know before they start reading?**

Let's imagine that in your book you expect the reader to have
intermediate OO knowledge. You could say:

OO (intermediate) including

-   Classes

-   Objects

-   Methods

-   Inheritance

-   Interfaces

You'd have a similar list for each required/assumed skill.

Your prerequisites should be grouped into headings (for example, HTML,
CSS, JavaScript, Python, networking, and so on), with a simple rating
(i.e. basic, intermediate, or advanced) after the heading title. Then,
add short, precise phrases to describe what programming skills the
reader should have.

The prerequisites should cover the top end of the minimum
qualifications. (For example, if you're writing a calculus textbook, you
don't need to say that the reader should know how to add and subtract.)

You may also address "out of scope" topics here. ("The reader will not
need to know...")

**5. Q&A**

What are the three or four most commonly-asked questions about this
technology? What are others interested in this topic asking in forums?

**6. Tell us about the competition and the ecosystem.**

-   What other books are available on this topic?

-   How does the proposed book compare to them?

-   What resources would you currently recommend to someone wanting to
    learn this subject?

-   What are the most important web sites and companies associated with
    this topic?

-   Where do others interested in this topic gather online?

**7. Book size and illustrations**

Please estimate:

-   The approximate number of published pages to within a 50-page range

-   The approximate number of diagrams and other graphics

-   The approximate number of code listings

**8. Contact information**

Formal Name (as it should appear on a book contract):

Name (as it would appear on a book cover):

Mailing Address:

Preferred email:

Preferred phone:

Skype:

Website/blogs/Twitter, etc:

**9. Schedule**

-   Most authors require 2-4 weeks to write each chapter. Please
    estimate your writing schedule

> Chapter 1: We typically expect the first chapter in about 1 month
>
> 1/3 manuscript:
>
> 2/3 manuscript:
>
> 3/3 manuscript:

-   Are there any critical deadlines for the completion of this book?

    -   New software versions anticipated?

    -   Known competition on the horizon?

    -   Important Technical conferences?

**10. Table of Contents**

While every Table of Contents is different, there are a few common best
practices for a typical In Action book.

Chapter 1: The first chapter is typically an overview of the book's
topic that tells the reader what the technology is, how it works, and
orients the reader to its practical benefits.

Chapter 2: The second chapter is often a brief tutorial example that
shows what the technology looks like in actual use. The reader isn't
expected to understand everything in this example, and it should be
simple enough to show just the important characteristics.

The next several chapters should cover the core aspects of the
technology that all users must know.

In later chapters, you may cover topics of interest to only certain
segments of your audience.

**Formatting the Table of Contents**

Your ToC should look something like the sample attached. Please number
your Table of Contents in the same way

-   Whenever possible, the first section of every chapter should be a
    gentle overview of prerequisites for the chapter, a
    what-you-need-to-know to read the chapter.

-   The final section of each chapter is a Summary.

-   You may include a brief annotation for each chapter, but the topics
    covered in the ToC should be clear without the annotation.

-   Every chapter should have clear objectives. "In this chapter, the
    reader will learn how to..."

**Sample ToC**

*Camel in Action*

Part 1 First steps

1.  Meeting Camel
    1.  Introducing Camel
    1.  Camel's message model
    1.  Camel's architecture
    1.  Your first Camel ride, revisited
    1.  Summary
2.  Routing with Camel
    1.  Introducing Rider Auto Parts
    1.  Understanding endpoints
    1.  Creating routes in Java
    1.  Creating routes with Spring
    1.  Routing and EIPs
    1.  Summary

Part 2 Core Camel

3.  Transforming data with Camel
    1.  Data transformation overview
    1.  Transforming data using EIPs and Java
    1.  Transforming XML
    1.  Transforming with data formats
    1.  Transforming with templates
    1.  About Camel type converters
    1.  Summary
4.  Using beans with Camel
    1.  Using beans the hard way and the easy way
    1.  The Service Activator pattern
    1.  Camel's bean registries
    1.  Selecting bean methods
    1.  Bean parameter binding
    1.  Summary
5.  Error handling
    1.  Understanding error handling
    1.  Error handlers in Camel
    1.  Using error handlers with redelivery
    1.  Using exception policies
    1.  Other error-handling features
    1.  Summary
6.  Testing with Camel
    1.  Introducing the Camel Test Kit
    1.  Using the Mock component
    1.  Simulating errors
    1.  Testing without mocks
    1.  Summary
7.  Understanding components
    1.  Overview of Camel components
    1.  Working with files (File and FTP components)
    1.  Asynchronous messaging (JMS component)
    1.  Web services (CXF component)
    1.  Networking (MINA component)
    1.  Working with databases (JDBC and JPA components)
    1.  In-memory messaging (Direct, SEDA, and VM components)
    1.  Automating tasks (Timer and Quartz components)
    1.  Summary
8.  Enterprise integration patterns
    1.  Introducing enterprise integration patterns
    1.  The Aggregator EIP
    1.  The Splitter EIP
    1.  The Routing Slip EIP
    1.  The Dynamic Router EIP
    1.  The Load Balancer EIP
    1.  Summary

Part 3 Out in the wild

9.  Using transactions
    1.  Why use transactions?
    1.  Transaction basics
    1.  The Transactional Client EIP
    1.  Configuring and using transactions
    1.  Compensating for unsupported transactions
    1.  Summary
10. Concurrency and scalability
    1.  Introducing concurrency
    1.  Using thread pools
    1.  Using concurrency with EIPs
    1.  Synchronicity and threading
    1.  The concurrency client API
    1.  The asynchronous routing engine
    1.  Summary
11. Developing Camel projects
    1.  Managing projects with Maven
    1.  Developing custom components
    1.  Developing interceptors
    1.  Using alternative languages
    1.  Summary
12. Management and monitoring
    1.  Monitoring Camel
    1.  Using JMX with Camel
    1.  Tracking application activity
    1.  Managing Camel applications
    1.  Summary
13. Running and deploying Camel
    1.  Starting Camel
    1.  Starting and stopping routes at runtime
    1.  Shutting down Camel
    1.  Deploying Camel
    1.  Camel and OSGi
    1.  Summary
14. Bean routing and remoting
    1.  Using beans for routing
    1.  Hiding middleware
    1.  Summary
